Skip to content

HTTPS clone URL

Subversion checkout URL

You can clone with
or
.
Download ZIP
tag: 2.0.16
Fetching contributors…

Cannot retrieve contributors at this time

719 lines (546 sloc) 21.817 kB
APACHE 2.0 STATUS: -*-text-*-
Last modified at [$Date: 2001/04/03 23:47:39 $]
Release:
2.0.14 : rolled March 7, 2000
scheduled for release March 10, 2000
2.0a9 : released December 12, 2000
2.0a8 : released November 20, 2000
2.0a7 : released October 8, 2000
2.0a6 : released August 18, 2000
2.0a5 : released August 4, 2000
2.0a4 : released June 7, 2000
2.0a3 : released April 28, 2000
2.0a2 : released March 31, 2000
2.0a1 : released March 10, 2000
DAEDALUS 2.0 PROBLEMS:
* mod_cgid and suexec have a problem co-existing. suexec sees a null
command string sometimes.
RELEASE SHOWSTOPPERS:
WARNING: ALWAYS check srclib/apr/STATUS and srclib/apr-util/STATUS
* Root all file systems with <Directory /> for WIN32/OS2/NW permissions
Status: patch brought forward from 1.3.14
WIN32 and OS2 need review [William Rowe, Brian Harvard]
* Win32: Get Apache working on Windows 95/98. The following work
(at least) needs to be done:
- winnt MPM: Fix 95/98 code paths in the winnt MPM. There is some NT
specific code that is still not in NT only code paths
- IOL binds to APR sendfile, implemented with TransmitFile, which
is not available on 95/98.
- Document warning that OSR2 is required (for Crypt functions, in
rand.c, at least.)
* Win32: Test access logging with multiple threads. Will the
native file I/O calls serialize automagically like the
CRT calls or do we need to add region locking each time
we access the logs?
Status:
* Win32: Complete the revamp the service environment and relocation
into the WinNT MPM. Changes ServerRoot service registry
parameter into ConfigArgs for multiple service startup parameters.
Problems to fix in the revamp: -k shutdown/restart are broken,
signals are not being acknowledged. Close window and shutdown
also seem out of sorts.
OtherBill is working on this and will finish over the weekend.
* We need a thread-safe resolver, at least on Unix.
Status: The best known candidate would be something from
BIND v9.
Status: Greg asks, "why? doesn't gethostbyname_r() handle this?"
* The AddInputFilter and AddOutputFilter directives do not allow the
administrator to remove or reorder filters. Once a filter is added
in a container, it is present in any subcontainers. It can only be
added to the filter chain after any filters specified in enclosing
containers.
* remove the --disable-shared from the subdir config of APR(UTIL)
before the final release. (in fact, it might even be nice to
allow for Apache config/build against an already-installed
APR(UTIL))
Note: we need to do a "make install" for APR(UTIL) so the shared
libraries can be installed properly. We could also use that
point to install include files (rather than have Apache
know everything that needs to be installed from the
sub-packages). The original impetus for doing the
disable-shared was because the shared lib wasn't getting
installed and a "make clean" in aprutil would make Apache
fail to load.
* users who want to install third-party modules into the Apache
source tree (for static linking) need to have autoconf and
libtool installed. This is because the module needs to have its
config.m4 incorporated into ./configure, which means "buildconf"
must be run.
Note: This is in part because we have removed the "extra" directory.
In the Apache-2.0 repository, this directory had a config.m4
file that allowed people to add external modules by
specifying --with-module on the configure line.
* ap_vrprintf() needs to handle more than 4K
Status: Greg volunteers
* mod_dir should normally redirect ALL directory requests which do
not include a trailing slash on the URI. However, if a "notes"
flag is set (say, via BrowserMatch), this behavior will be
disabled for non-GET requests.
Status: Greg volunteers
MsgId: <20010227104646.E2297@lyra.org>
MsgId: <3A9C0097.9C83F07C@Golux.Com>
RELEASE NON-SHOWSTOPPERS BUT WOULD BE REAL NICE TO WRAP THESE UP:
* the autoconf setup should be fixed to default to using the
"Apache" layout from config.layout, and each variable settable
in a layout should be overridable on the command line. Plus,
what we do right now just doesn't seem to fully fit into how autoconf
works, eg. AC_PREFIX_DEFAULT issues.
Message-ID: <Pine.BSF.4.20.0104031557420.20876-100000@alive.znep.com>
* mod_status ExtendedStatus SS (seconds since last request) is
bogus because of an uninitialized field in the scoreboard.
Status: Cliff is working on this
* All of our MPMs should use APR for threads/processes. This
will allow us to error out if a threaded MPM is chosen on a
platform that doesn't support threads.
* Combine log_child and piped_log_spawn. Clean up http_log.c.
Common logging API.
* Document mod_file_cache.
* OS/2: Get loadable modules working again. Requires shared core support
which doesn't appear to be catered for in the current build system.
* OS/2: Make mod_status work for spmt_os2 MPM.
* Win32: Win9x console window still won't play nice with the
close window, logoff and shutdown scenarios.
Status: OtherBill will move the patch forward from 1.3.15, once we
get our other Win9x issues solved.
* Win32: Add a simple hold console open patch (wait for close or
the ESC key, with a nice message) if the server died a bad
death (non-zero exit code) in console mode.
Status: OtherBill is bringing forward same ugly hack from 1.3.13
* Platforms that do not support fork (primarily Win32 and AS/400)
Architect start-up code that avoids initializing all the modules
in the parent process on platforms that do not support fork.
* Win32: Migrate the MPM over to use APR thread/process calls. This
would eliminate some code in the Win32 branch that essentially
duplicates what is in APR.
* There are still a number of places in the code where we are
losing error status (i.e. throwing away the error returned by a
system call and replacing it with a generic error code)
* Win32: Implement reliable piped logs on Windows
* Mass vhosting version of suEXEC.
* All DBMs suffer from confusion in support/dbmmanage (perl script) since
the dbmmanage employs the first-matched dbm format. This is not
necessarily the library that Apache was built with. Aught to
rewrite dbmmanage upon installation to bin/ with the proper library
for predictable mod_auth_db/dbm administration.
* use apu_dbm in mod_auth_dbm
Status: Greg +1 (low-priority volunteer)
* Integrate mod_dav.
Some additional items remaining:
- case_preserved_filename stuff
(use the new canonical name stuff?)
- find a new home for ap_text(_header)
- is it possible to remove the DAV: namespace stuff from util_xml?
* ap_core_translate() and its use by mod_mmap_static and mod_file_cache
are a bit wonky. The function should probably be exposed as a utility
function (such as ap_translate_url2fs() or ap_validate_fs_url() or
something). Another approach would be a new hook phase after
"translate" which would allow the module to munge what the
translation has decided to do.
Status: Greg +1 (volunteers), Ryan +1
* Explore use of a post-config hook for the code in http_main.c which
calls ap_fixup_virutal_hosts(), ap_fini_vhost_config(), and
ap_sort_hooks() [to reduce the logic in main()]
* read the config tree just once, and process N times (as necessary)
* (possibly) use UUIDs in mod_unique_id and/or mod_usertrack
* (possibly) port the bug fix for PR 6942 (segv when LoadModule is put
into a VirtualHost container) to 2.0.
* the LTFLAGS = -export-dynamic in the config.m4 is wrong. it is getting
added multiple times during the config process. The -export-dynamic
should probably move into build/special.mk (the make file used for
building Apache modules).
* shift stuff to mod_core.h
* APR-ize resolver stuff in mod_unique_id (Jeff volunteers)
* callers of ap_run_create_request() should check the return value
for failure (Doug volunteers)
PRs that have been suspended forever waiting for someone to
put them into 'the next release':
* PR#76: general
missing call to "setlocale();"
Status:
* PR#78: mod_include
Additional status for XBitHack directive
Status:
* PR#161: mod_dir
Questionable performace of mod_dir() with negotiation
Status:
* PR#362: mod_proxy
Mod_proxy doesn't allow change of error pages
Status:
* PR#370: mod_env
Modified PATH environemnt variable is not passed, instead
system's is used
Status:
* PR#440: mod_proxy
Proxy doesn't deliver documents if not connected
Status:
* PR#534: mod_proxy
proxy converts ~name to %7Ename when name starts with a dot (.)
Status:
* PR#537: mod_access
mod_access syntax allows hosts that should be restricted
Status:
* PR#557: mod_auth-any
~UserHome directories are not honored in absolute pathname
requests (.htaccess)
Status:
* PR#573: mod_log-any
More LogFormat directives
Status:
* PR#612: mod_proxy
Proxy FTP Authentication Fails
Status:
* PR#623: mod_include
A smarter "Last Modified" value for SSI documents (see PR number 600)
Status:
* PR#628: config
Request of "Options SymLinksIfGroupMatch"
Status:
* PR#697: mod_include
A security tweak I've been using for a few years for SSI
Status:
* PR#700: mod_proxy
Proxy doesn't do links right for OpenVMS files through ftp:
Status:
* PR#759: mod_imap
imap should read <MAP><AREA>*</MAP> too!
Status:
* PR#793: general
RLimitCPU and RLimitMEM don't apply to all children like they should
Status:
* PR#921: suexec
Uses cwd before filling it in, doesn't use syslog
Status:
* PR#922: config
it is useful to allow specifiction that root-owned symlinks
should always be followed
Status:
* PR#980: mod_proxy
Controlling Access to Remote Proxies would be nice...
Status:
* PR#994: mod_proxy
Adding authentication "on the fly" through the proxy module
Status:
* PR#1004: apache-api
request_config field in request_rec is moderately bogus
Status:
* PR#1028: other
DoS attacks involving memory consumption
Status:
* PR#1050: mod_log-any
Logging of virtual server to error_log as well
Status:
* PR#1085: mod_proxy
ProxyRemote make a dead cycle.
Status:
* PR#1117: mod_auth-any
Using NIS passwd.byname dbm files with AuthDBMUserFile
Status:
* PR#1120: suexec
suexec does not parse arguments to #exec cmd
Status:
* PR#1145: mod_include
Allow for Last-Modified: without resorting to XBitHack
Status:
* PR#1156: config
insufficent AllowOverrides granularity for autoindexing
Status:
* PR#1158: apache-api
improvements to child spawning API
Status:
* PR#1166: mod_proxy
``nph-'' not honored (no buffering) for ProxyRemote mapping
Status:
* PR#1176: mod_cgi
Apache cannot handle continuation line in headers
Status:
* PR#1191: general
setlogin() is not called, causing problems with e.g. identd
Status:
* PR#1204: general
regerror() exists, use it
Status:
* PR#1233: apache-api
there is no way to keep per-connection per-module state
Status:
* PR#1263: mod_dir
Add frame-safe anchor attribute to mod_autoindex links
Status:
* PR#1268: suexec
CGI scripts running as Apache user: security (suexec etc.)
Status:
* PR#1285: suexec
Error messages could be easier to spot in cgi.log file for suexec.c
Status:
* PR#1287: mod_access
add allow,deny/deny,allow warning to mod_access
Status:
* PR#1290: mod_proxy
Need to know "hit-rate" on proxy cache
Status:
* PR#1358: mod_log-any
Selective url-encode of log fields (or maybe a pseudo
log_rewrite module?)
Status:
* PR#1383: mod_headers
I make mod_headers to modify request headers as well as
response ones.
Status:
* PR#1532: mod_proxy
Proxy transfer logging
Status:
* PR#1547: mod_proxy
No HTTP_X_FORWARDED_FOR set...
Status:
* PR#1567: mod_proxy
ProxyRemote proxy requests fail authentication by firewall
Status:
* PR#1574: mod_autoindex
ReadmeName and HeaderName don't allow for server-parsed html.
Status:
* PR#1582: mod_rewrite
mod_rewrite forms REQUEST_URI different than mod_cgi does
Status:
* PR#1677: mod_headers
mod_headers should allow mod_log_config-style formats in
header values
Status:
* PR#1702: mod_proxy
mod_proxy to support persistent conns?
Status:
* PR#1803: mod_include
patches to mod_include to allow for file tests
Status:
* PR#1809: mod_auth-any
Suggestion for improving authentication modules and core source
code, problem with 401 and ErrorDocument
Status:
* PR#1855: mod_autoindex
More Control over autoindex layout
Status:
* PR#1878: mod_proxy
listing of proxy cache content
Status:
* PR#1905: suexec
Allow modules to set user:group for execution.
Status:
* PR#2024: apache-api
adding auth_why to conn_rec
Status:
* PR#2073: mod_log-any
pipelined connections are not logged correctly
Status:
* PR#2074: mod_rewrite
mod_rewrite doesn't pass Proxy Throughput on internal subrequests
Status:
* PR#2113: config
HTTP Server Rebuild Line Needs Changing for the better
Status:
* PR#2138: mod_status
mod_status always displays 256 possible connection slots
Status:
* PR#2221: documentation
Make online documentation search link back to my installation
Status:
* PR#2284: general
Can not POST to ErrorDocument - Apache/1.3b6
Status:
* PR#2314: mod_proxy
patterns in ProxyRemote
Status:
* PR#2343: mod_status
Status module averages are for entire uptime
Status:
* PR#2360: suexec
suexec for general access of user content?
Status:
* PR#2396: general
Proposal for TimeZone directive
Status:
* PR#2415: mod_info
/server-info doesn't check for the virtual host to list the info
Status:
* PR#2421: config
problem specifying ndbm library for build ?with autoconfigure
Status:
* PR#2431: general
A small addition to rotatelogs.c to improve program functionality.
Status:
* PR#2446: config
AllowOverride FileInfo is too coarse
Status:
* PR#2460: mod_cgi
TimeOut applies to output of CGI scripts
Status:
* PR#2512: mod_access
&lt;IfDenied&gt; directive wanted
Status:
* PR#2573: suexec
CGI's for general use still have to be run as another user
with suExec
Status:
* PR#2648: general
Cache file names in Proxy module
Status:
* PR#2760: config
[PATCH] User/Group for <Directory> and <Location> i.e. not only
in global and <Virtual>.
Status:
* PR#2763: general
mailto tags and bundling bug report script
Status:
* PR#2772: mod_log-any
more % escapes
Status:
* PR#2785: os-aix
Support for System Resource Controller
Status:
* PR#2793: protocol
When will Apache support P3P? Any Plans?
Status:
* PR#2873: config
Feedback/Comment on APACI
Status:
* PR#2889: general
Inclusion of RPM spec file in CVS/distributions
Status:
* PR#2906: general
Propose that Apache recommend $UNIQUE_ID for all "session id"
algorithms
Status:
* PR#2907: config
suggestion: power up your Include directive :)
Status:
* PR#3018: general
cannot limit some HTTP methods
Status:
* PR#3026: mod_autoindex
No way to change ReadmeName/HeaderName suffixes.
Status:
* PR#3143: apache-api
No module specific data hook for per-connection data
Status:
* PR#3181: config
Configuration file in Japanese
Status:
* PR#3191: mod_negotiation
no way to set global quality-of-source (qs) coneg values
with multiviews
Status:
* PR#3430: mod_negotiation
Enhancement: MultiViews, Multi-Language Documents
Status:
* PR#3568: mod_proxy
Accessing URL through proxy server corrupts data.
Status:
* PR#3594: os-windows
Please add an Apache icon to the systray instead of a DOS window
Status:
* PR#3605: mod_proxy
Some anonymous FTP URLs ask for authentication
Status:
* PR#3654: mod_autoindex
BORDER=0 makes Icons look nicer (FancyIndexing)
Status:
* PR#3677: general
New ErrorDocumentMatch directive
Status:
* PR#4180: os-windows
Alternative for win95 users
Status:
* PR#4241: config
Need to be able to override shebang line to make CGI scripts
more portable.
Status:
* PR#4244: config
"Files" and "FilesMatch" regexp does not recognize bang as
negation operator
Status:
* PR#4448: mod_log-any
Please allow CGI env variables (QUERY_STRING, ...) to be logged
with %{}e
Status:
* PR#4459: mod_include
Suggestion for better handling of Last-modified headers
Status:
* PR#4490: mod_cgi
mod_cgi prevents handling of OPTIONS requests
Status:
* PR#4520: mod_autoindex
mod_autoindex does not generate Last-Modified response headers
Status:
* PR#4658: os-windows
The output of CGI scripts appears in the window that apache
is running in
Status:
* PR#5713: os-windows
[PATCH] install as service with domain account
Status:
* PR#5993: general
AllowOverride should have a 'CheckNone' and 'AllowNone' argument
instead of only 'None'
Status:
* PR#6347: mod_mime
MIME types for MNG and JNG files need adding to mime.types and
the mime.types and magic files
Status: Waiting for IANA types to be defined
Other bugs that need fixing:
* MaxRequestsPerChild measures connections, not requests.
Until someone has a better way, we'll probably just rename it
"MaxConnectionsPerChild".
* Regex containers don't work in an intutive way
Status: No one has come up with an efficient way to fix this
behavior. Dean has suggested getting rid of regex containers
completely.
* SIGSEGV on Linux (glibc 2.1.2) isn't caught properly by a
sigwaiting thread. We need to work around this, perhaps unless
there is hope soon for a fixed glibc.
* orig_ct in the byterange/multipart handling may not be
needed. Apache 1.3 just never stashed "multipart" into
r->content_type. We should probably follow suit since the
byterange stuff doesn't want the rest of the code to see the
multipart content-type; the other code should still think it is
dealing with the <orig_ct> stuff.
Status: Greg volunteers to investigate (esp. since he was most
likely the one to break it :-)
Other features that need writing:
* Finish infrastructure in core for async MPMs
Status: post 2.0
* TODO in source -- just do an egrep on "TODO" and see what's there
Documentation that needs writing:
* Mod_status docs are needed.
* The concept of MPMs, especially if we ship more than one MPM for a
given platform
* New directives in the various MPMs and appropriate links from
obsolete directives in core.html to the MPM documentation.
* Revise manual/stopping.html and the last part of
manual/misc/perf-tuning.html to take account of the MPMs.
* API documentation
Status: Ben Laurie has written some hooks documentation
(apache-2.0/htdocs/hooks.html)
* Changes since 1.3.9 can be more easily seen in the commitlog file
dev.apache.org:/home/cvs/CVSROOT/commitlogs/apache-2.0
which includes some of Roy's comments when the changes were
committed in rough change-sets by purpose. Note that the commitlog
does not show the contents of new files until later.
Available Patches:
* Jon Travis's <jtravis@covalent.net> patch to deal with thread-safe
issues with inet_ntoa. See message <20001201163220.A12827@covalent.net>
Status: This is being set aside until the IPv6 work is finished
so that we know exactly what is required.
* Martin Sojka <msojka@gmx.de>'s patch to add error reporting for failed
htpasswd actions due to a full /tmp volume (other programs may have
similar problems?)
PR: 6475
Status:
* Mike Abbott's <mja@trudge.engr.sgi.com> patches to improve
performance
Status: These were written for 1.3, and are awaiting a port to
2.0
* Jim Winstead's <jimw@trainedmonkey.com> patch to add CookieDomain and
other small mod_usertrack features
* Dan Rench's <drench@xnet.com> patch to add allow the errmsg and timefmt
of SSI's to be modified in the config file. Patch is available in
PR6193
Open issues:
* What do we do about mod_proxy?
* Which MPMs will be included with Apache 2.0?
Jump to Line
Something went wrong with that request. Please try again.